# Fake News Detection using Deep Learning
Identifying fake news automatically poses a significant challenge, with far-reaching political and social consequences in the real world. In today's age of unencumbered access to the internet, there is an increased risk of misinformation. The boom of artificial intelligence also enables easy production and propagation of fake news. This misinformation has particularly significant consequences for the political sphere; false information can swing elections and in turn affect millions of lives. Since it is difficult to manually determine the validity of digital media, a more effective solution may involve the use of automated machine learning systems. We propose a machine learning textual analysis tool to determine the validity of political statements based purely on language structure. This paper outlines the design and architecture of a fine-tuned DistilBERT model using text, metadata, and textual sentiment, improving upon locally trained models. This system could empower individuals to filter fake news out of their media, encouraging the general population to become more informed. 

## The files within this repository detail the implementation described above. Refer to annotated-fake_news_final.pdf for more information.
   ### LLM_Implementation - contains the notebooks for DistilBERT implementation using various forms of LIAR data (both 3-label and 6-label classifications)
   ### CNN_Implementation - contains the notebooks for CNN and CNN-RNN implementation using exclusively text data
   ### LIAR_add_Sentiment - contains notebook for classifying Sentiment, a Decision Tree analysis to determine the importance of the the Sentiment feature, and the new CSV files containing Sentiment
   ### data - contains the original data sourced from the Hugging Face LIAR dataset and the preprocessing used for all models
